# Bioinformatics-tools-and-resources
Functional analysis of gene sets is an important step in almost all hightroughput omics studies and analyses. 
There are variuos methods and resources available to perform this task. In this page I would like to introduce the common methods and tools. 
A useful content was generated by the Harvard Chan Bioinformatics Core (HBC) training and EMBL courses.

What is functional analysis of gene sets?

- Gene set: 
First, let's start with defining gene sets; a gene set is a list of genes generated by differential expression analysis of genes or proteins, a GWAS analysis, etc. 
An example of a gene set is:



to gain insight about the biology underlying a list of genes. 

These genes could be output from a differential expression analysis, a GWAS analysis, proteomics analysis, etc. 

Regardless of the source of the gene list, functional analysis can explore whether particular pathways or processes are enriched among a list of genes.


In this workshop, we will use over-representation analysis (ORA) and functional class scoring (FCS) methods to identify potential pathways that are associated with our list of genes. We will be using the clusterProfiler R package to determine whether there is enrichment of any gene ontology (GO) processes in a list of genes and generate plots from the results. We will also give a brief introduction to using clusterProfiler to perform FCS with gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) followed by the Pathview R package for visualization.

